OK,
guys.
Now we're gonna have a look at how you round time to specific increments of time.
Specific blocks of time.
Now,
in level one of this course recovered fully the three round functions.
They were round,
round,
down and round up.
Now we're just gonna have a quick play with the round function here just to see what it
does.
So I'm just gonna tie round.
Just let me just capitalize that so we can see that it's the round function.
We're going to do that,
will.
That will make it a lot easier when you download the file and you can see exactly what they
do.
There happened to look at the formulas.
Okay,
so I'm just concerned the round function in here on.
I'm gonna look at the total hours because that's what we want to round now.
We could argue because we're working in hours and minutes.
We probably wanna work to two decimal places,
so I'm just gonna hit too close brackets hit and then copy that formula down with the drag
handle.
Okay,
so now we can see.
Let me just have it like that for a second just so we can see that That's the so we're
going to be referencing.
Okay,
so here we can see that seven hours and 30 minutes,
which is exactly what we worked,
has rounded to seven hours and 26 minutes,
which is quite peculiar there.
There's a specific reason for that which we're gonna come to in the next lecture.
When we look at how Excel copes with dates and times on its perhaps know exactly,
do you think it would bay?
But don't worry.
We'll cover that fully in the next lecture.
Okay,
just so we can get some variety.
I'm just going to change the hours that we work in here.
So let's certain let's say we worked till a minute past five on that day on 12 minutes past
five groups,
along with them their and 12 minutes past five.
On that day,
let's finish at 5 26 They're fine.
31 man on.
Let's finish dead on five oclock on Friday,
which is a very good thing today.
Okay,
so we can see if we finish it.
17 01 which is at a minute past five.
We've actually worked seven hours and 31 minutes,
but the railed functions given us announcer seven hours,
26 minutes.
So clearly that's not right.
So what we need to do is find another function or another group of functions that will
perform the same thing as rounding but actually work with time.
They look like those nice folks that Microsoft have already thought this through on They
have given us the Emmett Round function.
So let's have a look at what our payable hours would be yourselves type able analyst Gulf
and enter to force a new line on.
We're gonna be working hours a minutes.
Just so it's nice.
Implant Bolton enter on were no looking at em.
Round they go.
Let's just tidy that up.
Well,
pretty up the format in,
um,
a little later on.
But for now,
let's just let's just hope in the m around function again because it's,
ah,
formula.
We're gonna type equals we're going to tell you I m around because of highlighted that so
we don't pick the wrong cell.
We're gonna be looking at our total hours.
We're gonna hit comma.
We can see here that we've got a clue as to what we need to tighten next.
Just that says multiple.
Now the way you express the multiple when you use the M around is you hit the quotes.
We want to work in hours.
Colon.
On this time we want to work in 15 minute increments.
So we've said no air was colon on 15 minutes.
Then we close our quotes closer brackets on hit,
enter.
Don't worry about the way that so that results is displayed just at the moment.
That's because we have a general formatting on just up here.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna copy the formatting from this cell by hitting the
former painter and just paint over.
So there you go.
You can see that the M Round has rounded seven hours and 31 minutes to seven hours and 30
minutes.
Fantastic.
That's exactly what we wanted it to dough on.
We can see that all of these answers are in multiples off 15 minutes.
So there,
in 15 minute blocks now that's fantastic.
But when we work seven hours and 42 minutes on Tuesday here,
Andi,
it's highly unlikely,
certainly in the UK that you're going to get paid for seven hours and 45 at their Generally
,
employees will only pay you for 4 15 minute blocks that you worked.
So Ram is a very useful later rounding to the nearest increments of 15 minutes or whatever
minutes you set just up here So you can have this to anything.
You can have it in blocks of one minute to minute three.
Anything you want it all.
So because we have around function and around,
down,
on,
around,
up,
we have also the same correspondent.
Things similar to em round so em around is the equivalent of round on their The next
function that we're going to look at is the floor.
So I'm just gonna company that sells over there.
But I'm gonna change the bottom word to floor.
So that's nice and clear what it is that this particular column is gonna work with that
inward.
Well,
uh,
that's better.
Okay,
so here we're gonna use the same formula.
Almost.
We're gonna type equals floor.
And it's exactly the same for Mattis before.
So we're gonna look at the total hours hit comma,
open the quotes 00 because we're working in whole Alice on.
We're gonna look at 15 minute blocks,
so enter and again.
Don't worry that we've got a peculiar formatting on there.
We're just gonna copy the formatting from here.
Paste it over.
Okay,
let's just narrow that up a little bit.
Now we get.
So now we can see using the floor function that was still moving in 15 minute blocks
because all of these results are in 15 minute increments.
So we have 30 minutes and 30 minutes and 45 minutes in the whole hours and 30 minutes again
.
But this time we can see that seven hours and 31 minutes has been rounded down to the floor
of seven hours and 30 minutes,
which is what we'd actually get paid for,
saying with seven hours and 42 even though we were nearly there,
passed that mark and almost got to the seven and 3/4 hours will still only get paid for
seven hours and 30 minutes.
Similarly,
with seven hours and 46 minutes,
which you concede just here as Randi to seven hours and 45.
And even though we've just gone over the eight hours,
we're still going to get paid for the eight hours.
Okay,
so now we've worked out what the equivalent of round is using the em around function on
wood worked out.
What the equivalent of around down is using the floor function.
Now what we're gonna have a look at is the round up equivalent which may not surprise you
to know as round down is floor,
that round up is ceiling.
So let's just use the ceiling function.
Eso Let's go.
Ask s say,
Hey,
I l i n g open brackets select our total hours.
Type in a increments.
Let's work in 15 minutes.
Close on.
Let's just copy that down.
Okay,
now,
again,
we've got the peculiar former thinks it's just formatted.
Generally,
let's change the format so they know we have a very kind employer.
And if we work one minute over 7.5 hours,
they're gonna pay us for seven hours and 45 minutes and so on and so forth all the way down
.
OK,
so that's Hey,
you convert time into units of time switches 15 minute blocks.
Obviously,
if you want to work in 10 minute blocks rather than token 15 just here,
just change its 10 or 25 or whenever it is that you want to work in.
So they go.
That's how you ran the time.
In a more useful way.
In the next length,
you were gonna have a quick look at how Excel actually deals with time on dates on.
It may not be,
as you think,
OK on to the next lecture.